Caption: hello my name I'm gonna have to stand
Caption: here this is not gonna be good okay I
Caption: like to walk around oh yeah even better
Caption: green one is on Thanks
Caption: hello much better this is that I'm not
Caption: very good at standing behind the thing
Caption: so my name is Mandy Michael I'm a
Caption: front-end developer I work at seven West
Caption: media so we build like the West
Caption: Australian and Perth now and everything
Caption: I'm going to show you today is on copán
Caption: it's public so you can go and have a
Caption: look if anything interest you
Caption: I'm Mandy Michael one copán and I will
Caption: tweet out about it later
Caption: I'm Andy underscore Kerr on Twitter so
Caption: if you want to tweet at me about stuff
Caption: later you can I'm always on Twitter
Caption: which actually leads me into my talk
Caption: today which is called CSS is awesome and
Caption: the reason that I want to talk about
Caption: this is because the other night so I do
Caption: this thing where it's late at night and
Caption: I can't sleep so I go and Twitter and I
Caption: have a bit of a rant about something and
Caption: in this case it was about this meme
Caption: which is often used as a way to say
Caption: we're CSS sauce I think that's wrong I
Caption: think this is awesome I think CSS is
Caption: doing exactly what it should do in this
Caption: scenario and the reason that I think
Caption: that is because here what we're doing is
Caption: giving a very explicit width and height
Caption: we're setting a very specific font size
Caption: and then we're putting text in it and
Caption: just expecting that the container and
Caption: the text is going to work which is
Caption: stupid we've used these magic numbers
Caption: we've put content in it and then it
Caption: overflows so CSS has just gone well dude
Caption: that's not going to work
Caption: I'll just overflow two out of the
Caption: container you can still read the content
Caption: you can figure out what you're going to
Caption: do about it later or you can leave it as
Caption: it is so I'm gonna bit of a ramble about
Caption: why this is great and a whole bunch of
Caption: different things you could do the
Caption: opportunities that the CSS provides you
Caption: in order to deal with this or treat it
Caption: differently so what I'm going to do
Caption: today is tell you about ways that you
Caption: can deal with this problem but also ways
Caption: that you can use CSS to present it in a
Caption: way that best conveys the meaning of
Caption: your text in this case CSS is awesome
Caption: and the very specific reason why I'm
Caption: doing this is that I was asked to talk
Caption: about all the cool things in CSS and I
Caption: went oh how long have you got because
Caption: there's heaps of cool things so I've
Caption: picked some I think some of my favorites
Caption: some new some old and hopefully you'll
Caption: learn something today so this is really
Caption: boring I'm really obvious you could
Caption: solve this problem by setting the
Caption: container which is the oh there's my
Caption: thing the box to overflow:hidden really
Caption: simple problem solve doesn't overflow I
Caption: think this is shitty mainly because you
Caption: can't read the word this is way better
Caption: again CSS awesome but another option
Caption: that you can do is use the overflow
Caption: property with the value of hidden on the
Caption: h1 and you can add a text overflow of
Caption: ellipsis this is okay in some scenarios
Caption: like if you've got a summary or
Caption: something like that and you're linking
Caption: off to get more information but in this
Caption: particular case I think it's a really
Caption: bad implementation because this is
Caption: really prominent text and that all could
Caption: literally say anything you could say
Caption: awkward because a CSS is awful could say
Caption: CSS is what's another all word
Caption: as far away away CSIS is away I like
Caption: that one that's good one I would never
Caption: thought of that
Caption: so you've got to pick the right context
Caption: for the content that you're trying to
Caption: display the other reason why I really
Caption: really hate this example is because of
Caption: stuff like this I bet you can't guess
Caption: what this word is pedals
Caption: I do love poodles I don't have a poodle
Caption: I haven't gone retriever but my life is
Caption: about picking up dog poo at the moment
Caption: but that's why I think it's really bad
Caption: because this can happen a lot you can
Caption: you can kind of see how you can get
Caption: yourself into a bit of an awkward
Caption: situation with words when you start
Caption: chopping it off concatenate in it I'm
Caption: not concatenate truncating it so you're
Caption: going to be really careful with the
Caption: things that you choose in this case now
Caption: another thing that you might probably
Caption: didn't notice but I noticed immediately
Caption: when I did this is that the text doesn't
Caption: fit perfectly in the box vertically
Caption: anymore because it's not on three lines
Caption: and one of the things that CSS gets a
Caption: lot of grief over its not being able to
Caption: vertically center but there's actually a
Caption: lot of ways you can vertically center in
Caption: CSS you can use transforms you can use
Caption: positioning way back in the day you
Caption: could use tables but the best way to
Caption: vertically Center in CSS now is with
Caption: Flex bugs and it's really really easy
Caption: it's literally these two lines of CSS on
Caption: the the box so we said display of flex
Caption: and a line items property with a value
Caption: of center and that's it
Caption: problem solved not a problem anymore
Caption: CSS is awesome but there is a couple of
Caption: things you should know and this is what
Caption: I think the most important thing about
Caption: flex box to understand is it has a cross
Caption: axis on a main axis and this depends on
Caption: the direction that you apply to the Flex
Caption: item so in this case and by default
Caption: flexbox adds a flex direction of row
Caption: which means everything goes horizontally
Caption: so it's got a horizontal main axis and a
Caption: vertical cross access now because I want
Caption: to align vertically here I have to use
Caption: the align group of properties and that's
Caption: because a line is associated with the
Caption: cross axis if I change this to a flex
Caption: direction of column it switches the
Caption: cross axis and the main axis so the main
Caption: axis is now the vertical axis and this
Caption: means that if I want a vertically Center
Caption: I have to use the justified group of
Caption: properties so justify items to Center if
Caption: you can wrap your head around this flex
Caption: box is really easy because that's the
Caption: thing that a lot of people get hung up
Caption: on that do I use a line or do allies use
Caption: justify which one is which and they
Caption: couldn't do it you know it justifies
Caption: always horizontal because you're
Caption: changing the meaning by changing the
Caption: direction from a row to a column but
Caption: flex locks gives us a lot of ways to
Caption: vertically Center or to align content
Caption: within the div you can use space between
Caption: which evenly distribute space in the
Caption: middle of items there's also a property
Caption: called space around which puts an even
Caption: amount of space around each item my
Caption: favorite is flex end which puts
Caption: everything at the end um it's really
Caption: straightforward really easy and you have
Caption: a lot of control where how you want to
Caption: align your content and CSS and flex box
Caption: works really awesome with CSS grid which
Caption: is new and it is supported in all the
Caption: major browsers now not in IE but it's
Caption: fine there are a lot of really good
Caption: resources for doing for backs for grid
Caption: Rachel Andrew Jenn Simmons
Caption: you know Kravitz they've all got awesome
Caption: things it's not hard I've done it's
Caption: really easy
Caption: now I can't go through everything with
Caption: grid because that would be like an hour
Caption: of awesome and I wouldn't want to
Caption: overload you but what I will do is just
Caption: give you a really simple example of how
Caption: powerful CSS is and how powerful the
Caption: grid spec is now if you look at this
Caption: example I've got here eight boxes that
Caption: say CSS is awesome
Caption: because I want everyone to know how
Caption: awesome CSS is and around that is a
Caption: container and on that container I add
Caption: display grid and that's going to say use
Caption: the grid spec now because I want to have
Caption: spacing between each one I've got a grid
Caption: gap of 20 pixels and then what I need to
Caption: do is tell it how I want the content to
Caption: be distributed so first up is setting up
Caption: the columns which I've got for off I use
Caption: a property called grid template columns
Caption: and on this I'm going to use the repeat
Caption: function the reason I'm doing this is
Caption: partly because I'm lazy but also because
Caption: it just works as I've got an unknown
Caption: amount of CSS is awesome because you can
Caption: never have too many and the way that
Caption: this works with autofill is it says I
Caption: want to fit as many of these items along
Caption: my track as long as the size is a
Caption: minimum of 200 80 pixels at a maximum of
Caption: one fraction and what one fraction
Caption: essentially means is so fraction units
Caption: basically mean one fraction of the
Caption: available space so I'm going to show you
Caption: what this looks like because it's easier
Caption: to to show but basically what this is
Caption: doing is as it scales it says well I can
Caption: fit three or four or one box at a
Caption: minimum size of 280 pixels and then it
Caption: uses the fraction unit to just scale
Caption: that out
Caption: and what I love about this is that
Caption: that's done with these four lines of CSS
Caption: there's no media queries it just works
Caption: there's no this not very complicated
Caption: HTML it's a container with all the divs
Caption: inside of it and if you were to recreate
Caption: this with floats or even flexbox
Caption: you'll be finding you're writing a lot
Caption: of CSS with a lot of media queries and a
Caption: lot of HTML to try and get something
Caption: like this to work so grid actually makes
Caption: our code simpler which means if you're
Caption: building large JavaScript web apps like
Caption: I'm doing at the moment your bundle size
Caption: is huge because you've got all this CSS
Caption: and all this HTML in order to create a
Caption: layout like this so CSS grid is really
Caption: awesome and really powerful and it lets
Caption: us do a lot of things in particular what
Caption: CSS grid allows us to do is start making
Caption: sort of magazine type layouts and
Caption: another thing that you see in magazine
Caption: type layouts is text wrapping around
Caption: images or around containers and this is
Caption: something that you can do in CSS in
Caption: chrome just Chrome at the moment it is
Caption: coming in Firefox in August
Caption: apparently so that's pretty cool and
Caption: it's called CSS shapes and the way CSS
Caption: shapes works is it lets you define a
Caption: shape in CSS with either a polygon or a
Caption: circle something like that and then the
Caption: text wraps around it so here if right at
Caption: the bottom there there's a property
Caption: called shape - outside and what that
Caption: means is on my shape inside my container
Caption: I'm gonna put some CSS in there and
Caption: define the shape that I want the text to
Caption: wrap around so I picked a triangle
Caption: because I know no reason in particular I
Caption: just thought it was cool and the way
Caption: that you define is with polygons is you
Caption: set up the coordinates and this
Caption: essentially I'm going to come over here
Caption: so like I'm not giving you guys any love
Caption: so over here we've got three coordinates
Caption: for each point of the try
Caption: zero zero is the top left zero 100 is
Caption: the bottom left and then 50 50 is the
Caption: point in here and you can create any
Caption: shape that you want with a polygon you
Caption: can put 30 points 100 points whatever
Caption: you want and that'll just mean that the
Caption: tax wraps around what's really important
Caption: about this though is the float yeah you
Caption: still use floats and CSS I know people
Caption: think you don't need to learn about them
Caption: anymore but they're wrong
Caption: floats are still really awesome finally
Caption: we're going to use floats for what
Caption: they're meant for floating things so do
Caption: figure out 1/2 weeks work don't ignore
Caption: it they're really important and you can
Caption: float it left or you can float it right
Caption: because that's what floats to just
Caption: quickly though importantly to note the
Caption: syntax does vary for the shape depending
Caption: on what kind of thing you want to do so
Caption: if you wanted a circle rather than
Caption: putting like a thousand points to get a
Caption: really nice circle you can use the
Caption: circle syntax are you just to find a
Caption: radius and again a coordinate of where
Caption: you want it to set sorry in this case
Caption: 50% and that is my radius and then the
Caption: circle just goes around here I gotta
Caption: come over here and show you two over
Caption: here so I've given it a radius of 50
Caption: percent of the container and then
Caption: positioned it at 50% so let's apply that
Caption: so
Caption: this syntax is the same for clip path
Caption: which is another property but I'm not
Caption: going to talk about that because I had
Caption: to cut it I'm afraid I talk too much
Caption: now one of the most obvious things that
Caption: I didn't talk about right at the very
Caption: beginning was that you could just remove
Caption: the width and height from the box and
Caption: everything we're just like sometimes
Caption: removing things is actually the way to
Caption: go but there's still a problem with this
Caption: and that's because I've still got that
Caption: done fixed font size which i think is 45
Caption: pixels from memory and you can see when
Caption: it gets smaller the text gets cut off
Caption: again which I'm really not a fan on so
Caption: the next thing I wanted to talk about is
Caption: viewport units and they're actually
Caption: pretty well supportive all the new
Caption: browsers support it and back to ie 9
Caption: partial support so what I'm going to
Caption: apply to this and I'm going to show you
Caption: how it works before I explain what they
Caption: are I'm using a viewport width unit and
Caption: it'll just scale perfectly with the
Caption: viewport just like that really really
Caption: smoothly and yeah yeah and the way that
Caption: our viewport units work is essentially
Caption: they're a percentage of the viewport so
Caption: there's a viewport width and that's one
Caption: percent of the viewport width there's a
Caption: report hype one percent of the viewport
Caption: height and then there's V min and V mass
Caption: V min is essentially it'll take either
Caption: the viewport width or the viewport
Caption: height whichever is smaller and then V
Caption: Max will take viewport width viewport
Caption: height whichever is larger and they're
Caption: really awesome for controlling the way
Caption: that you want your text or widths or
Caption: anything to scale according to the
Caption: viewport what's really great about these
Caption: is people like Mike Wright Muller have
Caption: created fairly complex
Caption: have sass functions to create fluid
Caption: typography on the web that will just
Caption: scale and work in every browser with
Caption: minimum and maximum values they're
Caption: really really awesome and I use them all
Caption: the time especially in code pen where
Caption: I'm being lazy and want to make a
Caption: responsive like text effect and don't
Caption: want to write media queries so they're
Caption: pretty great I really ladies highly
Caption: recommend you use them again like I said
Caption: really good support I would be very sad
Caption: if I talked about fonts and didn't talk
Caption: about variable fonts cuz they're like my
Caption: favorite thing if you follow me on
Caption: Twitter this was another one of my
Caption: Twitter rants recently which actually
Caption: went really well I I got to spend on my
Caption: Twitter about this rant but a variable
Caption: fun is it's a little bit of a stretch it
Caption: is CSS but it's mainly about the font
Caption: because what a variable font does and
Caption: this is a new aspect it's supported in
Caption: Chrome Safari and just today edge which
Caption: is awesome Firefox is like tweeting
Caption: going yeah yeah we'll have it soon so
Caption: it's you know pretty cool anyway a
Caption: variable fun is essentially one font
Caption: that acts like multiple fonts so where
Caption: you have a bold and italic and a
Caption: condensed font as multiple individual
Caption: files a variable font is one file that
Caption: contains all of that information and
Caption: what's really awesome about this there's
Caption: so many things firstly performance is
Caption: much better because we're not blocking
Caption: the rendering of our page by loading
Caption: multiple fronts we only need one easy
Caption: the other thing is typically these fonts
Caption: are smaller than the individual fonts
Caption: combined so that's about our four point
Caption: performance as well and the third thing
Caption: that I love about it is variable fun to
Caption: have built-in interpolation so if you
Caption: have a thin weight like what I'd use for
Caption: CSS and a thick weight
Caption: like I've used for awesome you can
Caption: actually animate this
Caption: so you can go from thin to thick without
Caption: having janky fonts switching out or
Caption: anything like that because the font from
Caption: start to finish will interpolate all of
Caption: those values which also means that while
Caption: now we're restricted to 400 weight and
Caption: it like a thin and a bold we can have
Caption: anything along that axis of
Caption: interpolation which i think is really
Caption: cool and I will show you well that's
Caption: cool in a minute but first of all I'm
Caption: going to show you how it works with the
Caption: CSS so the first thing I didn't come
Caption: over this side you just set up your font
Caption: so on the h1
Caption: this one's called Dunbar and then you
Caption: use this fun variation settings property
Caption: and what you do in this is you set our
Caption: you you have to reference the named
Caption: access so because they can have multiple
Caption: styles in it
Caption: this is using weight which is predefined
Caption: and this one here is at height which
Caption: actually refers to the height of these
Caption: letters so you see the S is actually a
Caption: different height in all of these words
Caption: and all you have to do is pick a value
Caption: along the range so the h1 is actually
Caption: awesome yeah that's cool which is 178
Caption: weight there is is this one here which
Caption: is 89 yeah 89 weight we've liked really
Caption: random decimal places
Caption: which I actually put in so you can see
Caption: that you can literally pick any value
Caption: along the axis and it will it will let
Caption: you do that and then the way in that
Caption: this one is 50 as a weight and then I
Caption: did the same with the x height that's
Caption: all one font just holding with CSS so
Caption: it's really cool
Caption: this is probably my most popular thing
Caption: that I've ever made in my life it's my
Caption: contribution to through the web and it's
Caption: growing grass text which I made with a
Caption: variable font called deep river and blue
Caption: some people's minds because no one has
Caption: ever enema animated tech like that
Caption: before so with with actual text and
Caption: that's editable you can change that to
Caption: whatever text you want it to be and
Caption: it'll still work which is pretty cool
Caption: and I actually cheated with this and
Caption: combined things in a way I wasn't
Caption: supposed to do to make the leaves but
Caption: it's pretty cool of what you can do you
Caption: create a whole new effect with variable
Caption: fronts so moving swiftly on because I'd
Caption: literally talk about variable fonts all
Caption: day
Caption: that's a cool I want to talk about other
Caption: text related things because I make a lot
Caption: of text effects on code pen and I want
Caption: to talk about first letter because I
Caption: don't think it's used enough it's
Caption: something you see in print a lot and
Caption: people don't use it enough on the web
Caption: for my liking it's really really simple
Caption: I target my h1 with a pseudo element
Caption: called first let up using the double
Caption: colon and then I just put whatever stars
Caption: I want in there so I have cheated a
Caption: little bit with this CSS the really
Caption: basic version of this is they set a font
Caption: size a fun family called facha a font
Caption: weight that because I don't want it to
Caption: be super ball and a color now obviously
Caption: that's not how you get this beautiful
Caption: layered 3d text I did cheat a bit this
Caption: has two pseudo elements on it as well
Caption: which I've used to layer the same font
Caption: because it's especially fun to lay a
Caption: font and then I've just changed the
Caption: colors of it which is another thing that
Caption: you can do with variable fonts if you
Caption: want to see how this is made I literally
Caption: have about a hundred using this example
Caption: on my code pen
Caption: now for a more practical sense something
Caption: like text-decoration skip is really
Caption: awesome so you may not have noticed but
Caption: when you use a standard underline on the
Caption: web the text goes the underline goes
Caption: straight through the descender which is
Caption: this little bit on the P text decoration
Caption: skip with a value of ink we'll skip that
Caption: and put this nice like space in between
Caption: now this is great because firstly it
Caption: looks nice but as my friend Julie
Caption: pointed out in her presentation recently
Caption: it's really good for accessibility
Caption: people with dyslexia might have trouble
Caption: reading text if you've got lines through
Caption: it so it's really good accessibility
Caption: feature as well as a nice sort of visual
Caption: tweak to your designs and to your to
Caption: your page the other thing I've added on
Caption: here is you can actually color the
Caption: underline it doesn't have to be blue or
Caption: whatever color you set your that link to
Caption: I've used text decoration color and I've
Caption: picked my favorite name to color Rebecca
Caption: purple purple is my favorite color but
Caption: the other thing that you can do is you
Caption: can actually put over lines on your text
Caption: as well and you can have an over line
Caption: and an underline and you do this by just
Caption: specifying the property text decoration
Caption: line and you just go over line space
Caption: underline if you want to you can have
Caption: line through as well and it'll put a
Caption: line through the middle like a
Caption: strikethrough I really like this I don't
Caption: know why you don't see it often of
Caption: course you could go a bit nice like idea
Caption: I thought this was really fun I really
Caption: enjoyed making this one you can style
Caption: the way the line looks this one uses a
Caption: value called wavy which is really fun
Caption: there's also dotted and double and solid
Caption: which is boring
Caption: this one like I said before is using
Caption: line three so it can go through the
Caption: middle the only thing I would say about
Caption: wavy is actually put it like under line
Caption: first because it's so deep I had to
Caption: adjust the line height of this when it
Caption: was under underneath so that it actually
Caption: fit so considerations to be made lots of
Caption: opportunity lots of problems that come
Caption: along with it once that's about time
Caption: like oh yeah cool so another thing that
Caption: I love to do in CSS and this is kind of
Caption: more of a visual thing but I think it's
Caption: really important for conveying
Caption: information is under conveying context
Caption: is using shadows and there are two types
Caption: of shadows in CSS there's the Box shadow
Caption: and there's the text shadow and I'm
Caption: using both of them in this this is I
Caption: make this stuff all the time it's really
Caption: fun I love it's at this time when I show
Caption: people some of the shadow stuff that
Caption: I've done they look at it and they're
Caption: like whoa what's going on there it's
Caption: actually not very complicated if we look
Caption: at the boss shadow first on the give
Caption: I've got a 1 pixel key line around the
Caption: box and then there's sort of offset e3d
Caption: looking shadow and all this is doing is
Caption: setting a for the for the key line I
Caption: don't want it to be offset so I'm not
Caption: setting an x and y coordinate I don't
Caption: want it to be blurred which is what this
Caption: third value is but I want to spread
Caption: which is how far it it goes from the the
Caption: center of one pixel and then a color
Caption: using a hex value or RGB or whatever you
Caption: want to use and that just gives me this
Caption: outline here
Caption: the second one gives me this bit now you
Caption: can keep adding like I've done a text
Caption: shadow as much as you want this one
Caption: because I want to offset it I'm going 8
Caption: pixels to the left and a right left
Caption: third left everything so it's to the
Caption: left and eight pixels down I'm not
Caption: blurring it because that's not fun and
Caption: ya know spread because I want it to be
Caption: exactly the size of the container and
Caption: the same approach applies on a text
Caption: shadow exactly the same syntax I've got
Caption: a key line around the text so I've got
Caption: my one pixel it's a little bit different
Caption: with text because text shadows are meant
Caption: to be like a drop shadow so it's like
Caption: one angle so you get around this with
Caption: the text shadow by actually putting in
Caption: for 10 shadows for the key line and you
Caption: offset it bottom left bottom right top
Caption: left top right and then it makes a line
Caption: and then this second part creates the 3d
Caption: bit there and all you do is increment
Caption: the value until you reach the desired
Caption: distance away from the text that you
Caption: want it to be it's not very hot it's
Caption: just very time-consuming I rate this by
Caption: hand you don't have to do that you can
Caption: use SAS functions if you write SAS or
Caption: less or stylus or whatever your thing of
Caption: choices but what I love about shadows is
Caption: that you can do something like this and
Caption: to me this makes CSS look really awesome
Caption: because that looks pretty sweet I
Caption: challenge anyone to tell me that it's
Caption: not it's weekend and you do this by
Caption: putting a lot of text shadows with a
Caption: blur and changing the alpha channel of
Caption: the RGB a value and you just offset it
Caption: and off set it off set it until you
Caption: reach what if I go there
Caption: 21:39 twenty-one pixels down here and it
Caption: just fades off this is like my favorite
Caption: shadow effect in CSS takes forever to
Caption: ride so I'm just going to finish up with
Caption: some animation I had heaps but I took
Caption: them out because some of them were a bit
Caption: obnoxious and I realized that was
Caption: probably not a good demonstration of CSS
Caption: when putting this up because if anyone
Caption: doesn't like flashy things you're not
Caption: gonna like this
Caption: so I recommend looking away I will tell
Caption: you when it's gone I'm gonna change the
Caption: slide now hang on my video I didn't play
Caption: here we go
Caption: ah last
Caption: you miss the effect everyone anyway
Caption: disco
Caption: it's my disco animation I'll come back
Caption: to it maybe it'll load and the way that
Caption: we do this is with keyframe animations
Caption: and essentially this is done using the
Caption: keyframe syntax so it uses this
Caption: keyframes has to be keyframes with an S
Caption: sometimes I forget to put that in and it
Caption: doesn't work and you give it a name so I
Caption: called a disco because that seemed
Caption: appropriate and then you can set up your
Caption: keyframe and it can be 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 100
Caption: if you wanted to or you can do it at in
Caption: this case I've done 20 percent intervals
Caption: I think you can literally change any
Caption: sense property that you want I did
Caption: background and then I picked random
Caption: colors didn't put that much effort into
Caption: picking the colors I think it turned out
Caption: pretty sweet and then on the depth so in
Caption: this case the container that's around
Caption: the CSS is awesome you can add the
Caption: animation and apply it to that container
Caption: so first up you set the name which is
Caption: disco then you can put your timing
Caption: function in which is a thousand
Caption: milliseconds I've also added an
Caption: iteration count of infinite because the
Caption: party should literally never end and
Caption: then you can add an animation direction
Caption: which in this case I've done alternate
Caption: and what that means is it'll go like
Caption: this otherwise you've got forwards which
Caption: always just goes forward that looks a
Caption: bit janky I don't like that there's a
Caption: bunch of options there is a shorthand
Caption: version of this syntax but I separated
Caption: them out so you can actually see what
Caption: they were doing and then for the
Caption: background I do exactly the same thing
Caption: but I swap the colors around so that it
Caption: would look different
Caption: let's see if this plays again
Caption: ah that's so sad it's my favorite slide
Caption: anyway we'll move on but the power of
Caption: animations on the web is really really
Caption: awesome you can do really obnoxious
Caption: things like this you can shake your text
Caption: you can zoom stuff in and out or you can
Caption: animate in things you can create a
Caption: storytelling experience and you can help
Caption: convey your content in a way that's
Caption: actually meaningful now another thing
Caption: that you can do is blend modes there's
Caption: three blend modes there's background
Caption: blend mode and mix blend mode the
Caption: background blend mode works by having a
Caption: background color and a background image
Caption: and it blends the two together mixed
Caption: blend mode works by blending elements
Caption: that are stacked on top of each other so
Caption: the background key eyes got a blend mode
Caption: on this space image and then the h1 has
Caption: the mixed blend mode and that blends
Caption: into the background of both the
Caption: container and the text and the
Caption: background and the way this works like
Caption: this one place so you can see here as I
Caption: change the color the image changes and
Caption: this might seem a little bit frivolous
Caption: but actually it's really good if you
Caption: want to keep your image file sizes down
Caption: like greyscale and apply like a tin to
Caption: over the top you can do that you can
Caption: create interesting hover effects with
Caption: something like this and they're really
Caption: there's a lot of practical uses for it
Caption: aside from the pretty ones and what's
Caption: great about this is if you're familiar
Caption: with Photoshop it's all the same all the
Caption: same values darkened lighting screen
Caption: color dodge exclusion if you don't know
Caption: what they are
Caption: my Mozilla developer Doc's
Caption: actually explain them all really really
Caption: well
Caption: did I go yeah I didn't cool so actually
Caption: can blind combine the blend modes and
Caption: the animations to make this totally
Caption: amazing video which I'm really sad might
Caption: not actually pay for you that's sad
Caption: you can go check that out on code pen I
Caption: might tweet that one later essentially
Caption: it's using mix blend mode and sunscreen
Caption: so as it overlays why is that not
Caption: learning I'm really sad it's my favorite
Caption: as it overlays it's sort of masked out
Caption: bits of the text and creates new colors
Caption: it's really cool sorry I am going to
Caption: finish up now
Caption: what what I hope that you at least go
Caption: down today if you didn't learn anything
Caption: new that's fine if you still think CSS
Caption: sucks that's less fine but ok what I do
Caption: hope that you get out of this though is
Caption: that when you see this beam you stop
Caption: thinking about just that one outcome of
Caption: CSS and how it does that and you start
Caption: thinking about all the opportunity that
Caption: can be applied to it so you know I
Caption: showed you a bunch of things a bunch of
Caption: ways that you can use CSS to change the
Caption: way content looks and acts and responds
Caption: both practically and for fun but I
Caption: didn't really talk about all the other
Caption: things that are in CSS and there's
Caption: literally so many so many awesome things
Caption: you can mask things you can skew things
Caption: you can rotate them you we've got
Caption: attribute functions and cap functions
Caption: and selectors that allow you to be
Caption: specific about something that you want
Caption: in the page this will will change which
Caption: lets you tell the browser that
Caption: something's going to change for better
Caption: performance we've got the custom
Caption: properties now in CSS which are kind of
Caption: like variables in a very loose sense so
Caption: it's really a lot that you can do and
Caption: you should definitely go and give it a
Caption: whirl try it out
Caption: but if I definitely haven't convinced
Caption: you the CSS is awesome I just we want to
Caption: show you this which I got sent today
Caption: this is made with CSS it's all HTML and
Caption: CSS I don't know how it's made
Caption: I got sentenced today wet water notice
Caption: to yourself holy cow if you look at this
Caption: there's like veins and like a freckle
Caption: and eyelashes eyelashes on this it's
Caption: freaking amazing and if you can't look
Caption: at this and think CSS is awesome I can't
Caption: help you you're on your own so thank you
Caption: very much